1) what is taint and toleration 
2) node affinity an pod affinity 
3) how to check the logs of a pod or deployment?
4) how to check how many pods are running
5) what are deployment strategy used in your project
6) what is init container
7) what is statefullset
8) what is ingress
9) difference between headfull and headless service
10) difference between secret and configmap
11) what is livenessprobe and readynesspeobe
12) how to access other pods in a cluster
13) what is a pod
14) how you will make sure that the database should start first and then application
15) Types of storage class used in your project
16) difference between statefullset and stateless
17) describe kubernetes architecture
18) difference between PV and pvc
19) 2 containers are running inside a pod if one container goes down then will it affect other running container
20)  Update the password in secret without restarting the pod or deployment ,is it possible ?
21) how to rollback the deployment?
22) what is the reason for pod eviction?
22) pod is in pending state ,what are the possible reasons?
23) how you will make sure that in rolling update strategy 2 pods are always available?
24) crashloopbackoff, what are the possible reasons?
25) why you are using 3 master node in production?
26) how you will make sure that pod should be running on a specific node?
27) how to check what are the activities performed by the container while creating the pod
28) how to get the ip of a pod ?
29) which network plugin you are using?
30) how you are monitoring the kubernetes cluster and the containers
31) Job should be terminated after 40 seconds ? ActiveDeadLineSeconds: 40

32) list cluster objects
ANS - storageclass pv node clusterrole clusterrolebinding

33). write code to implement blue green deployment strategy using deployment object and roleback in case of failure and explain process
ANS -Yes, we can implement a Blue-Green deployment strategy using Kubernetes Deployment objects. Blue-Green deployment involves maintaining two identical environments, one serving as the active environment (Blue) and the other as the idle environment (Green).
 Deploy Two Identical Versions Initially, deploy two identical versions of your application, let's call them blue and green. These will represent the Blue and Green environments.
Service Configuration -Set up a Kubernetes Service to route traffic to one of the environments. Initially, all traffic will be routed to the blue environment.
Testing and Verification- Test the green environment thoroughly to ensure it's functioning correctly and meets your requirements.
Switching Traffic-Once the green environment is verified, update the Service configuration to route traffic to the green environment instead of blue. 
This switch can be done instantly in Kubernetes by updating the Service's selector to target the green Deployment.
Rollback (if necessary)-If any issues arise after the switch, you can quickly roll back to the blue environment by reverting the Service configuration to target the blue Deployment.

34).
